# RMarkdown


## Introduction

R markdown is similar to notebooks (jupyter/mathematica) in that it contains both document and executable code.

Using R Studio, it is very easy to create RMarkdown documents.
But even without RStudio, RMarkdown documents can be executed, leading to very easy report automation.


## Code Chunks
Using delimiters 

	```{r} and ```
	
, we can write any R code.
Output of these code chunks, automatically inserted to our document outputs.
This way, we can easily add graphs and table output to our reports.

Our code chunks could have following arguments

- include = FALSE 

	If this is TRUE, our code chunk and its output is automatically inserted to output document. Normally this is not what we want, therefore, its default value is false. Note that, the code still runs in the background.

- echo = FALSE 

	Here code is not inserted but results are inserted to output document. Useful to insert table and figure output.

- message = FALSE
- warning = FALSE

Does messages and warnings generated by code is inserted to output documents.

- fig.cap = 

	By setting this value, you can add caption to figure output.




## Inline Code

We can insert function results or variables to our `r ` block.
This is mostly useful to give output like:

	 company latest month earnings is `r latest_month_earnings`


## Code Languages

Backend engine of RMarkdown is knitr. 
knitr could execute other programming languages like


-Python
-SQL
-Bash
-Rcpp
-Stan
-JavaScript
-CSS

give programming language name to code chunk like below

	```{python}
	```

## Parameters


RMarkdown documents could take parameters and use them to create different output

Parameters are defined at the YAML section of the RMarkdown document like below

		---
		title: Atilla's Document
		output: html_document
		params:
		  year: 2021
		  data_filename: file.csv
		---

see more in [R Markdown The Definitive Guide Chapter 15 Parameterized reports](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/parameterized-reports.html)

## Tables

Normally, R Markdown prints output of matrix, data frames and tibbles as tables.
Output of this tables are same as they are on console of R.
knitr::kable function gives better output.

There are some other libraries which could be used for better output in R Markdown.


## Markdown Basics

R Markdown creates output text using pandoc markdown.
You could add 

- Headers
- Lists
- Links
- Images
- Latex equations
- Tables
- Footnotes
- Bibliographies and Citations

and all text formatting options.
That is said, creating tables using R Code is so much easier than using simple markdown tables.

see [R Markdown cheat sheet](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/lesson-15.html) for how to use markdown options.

## Output Formats

you could create 

- html
- pdf
- word
- odt (open/libre office)

documents with R Markdown easily.
Note that pdf documents need latex tools are installed in your computer.
For beginners, creating an html document and printing to pdf is more easier than creating pdf document directly.

You could also create presentations/slides with R Markdown.



## Slide Presentations
R Markdown allows creation of slides using following technologies.


- beamer_presentation - PDF presentations with beamer
- ioslides_presentation - HTML presentations with ioslides
- slidy_presentation - HTML presentations with slidy
- powerpoint_presentation - PowerPoint presentation
- revealjs::revealjs_presentation - HTML presentations with reveal.js

## See more in 

- [RStudio R Markdown document](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/lesson-1.html)
- Book [R Markdown: The Definitive Guide](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/)
- [R Markdown cheat sheet](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/lesson-15.html)

